---
layout: post
title: "Homelab"
description: "Bôa - Duvet has been on my mind"
date: 2025-10-01 17:00:00 -0500
categories: [Homelab]
tags: [homelab, build, IT, programming]
permalink: /homelab/
image:
  path: /assets/img/homelab.jpg
  alt: Raspberry Pis are a great way to start a homelab!
---

# What's a Homelab? 

A *homelab* is essentially a space where many people have a self-contained technical space, that they can use for many things. Be it wanting to hoard massive amount of data or use it for testing out various new softwares, there's a homelab for everyone, it just depends on how much you are willing to dedicate to it.  

# Why Homelab? 

When most people think of homelab, they usually picture someone who got massive datacenters, or the in-between of that one person with multiple computers and too much time on their hand contemplating the nature of the internet. Sort of similar to Neo or Lain. 

However in my experience, I believe that a homelab can be so much more, and in an era where the internet is ubitiqious throughout our lives, and we're expanding ever deeper into the race for artificial intelligence, compute resources has become a necessary thing with more and more people getting into various niche subjects within homelabbing be it networking, servers adjuducation and so much more. Some are using it to have an alternative faction compared to mainstream tech in the age of where privacy conscious individuals have to be weary to IT professional learning for the first time how certain things works. Point being, there's a homelab out there for everyone, just how much you are willing to dedicate is the real question

# What does my homelab look like?

Like all fledging enthusiast once upon a time, a homelab is started out by a dedicated compute unit, or in this case, my old trustly reliable desktop. I remembered back in 2009 I used to own a HP Pavilion SFF desktop, model name unknown of course, but given that this was the Windows 7 era and I was one of the few lucky one who had a HD 1366x768 monitor, it was strange watching from my viewpoint as to how much I've shifted and moved from tech to tech. 

However, for my new homelab, it has far outgrown the HP Pavillion desktop. Right now even though I'm in the beginning of my phase, I have managed to jot down some good options for a starting point. 

My main build, denoted `01` is currently a custom built linux desktop that I use for a lot of things, however mostly to symbolize and have some form of connection for that old setup I had many moons ago. `01` setup is pretty benign, however it is something inticing even given the current circumstances of it age and the advent of new technology, however it is still packing some pack given the specifications: 

```
CPU: Ryzen 7 7800X3D
RAM: 96GB DDR5 RAM
GPU: RTX 4070Ti Super
Storage: 12TB M.2 SSD
```

So as you can tell, `01` still has some performance left in it. `01` runs a varient of Fedora Workstation, and whilst there are more powerful varients, I alway prefer the Workstation for it balance between stability and bleeding edge, as well as its approach to software ownership. 

However, that pales in comparison to my actual homelab set-up. I decided that instead of going for a big, 42U server like I alway dreamed of, I realized it is best to start within a beginner space where I can learn many of my eventual goals within my path in IT, as well as for the betterment of my own learning and vestige. Thus, I've came across a small but enthusiastic community that focus on that aspect - also known as mini-lab. 

# What in my mini-lab?

The first thing I alway have on my homelab is a 2U screen that I use for monitoring, something I plan on replacing with my JetKVM in the near future, and running solo.

Right below that is `e-01` a mini-pc that I have picked up a while back that serves as my main contender for many of the dockers containers I use on a regular basis. 

Right below that we have `Bonnie` and `Clyde` (and no I promise that wasn't a reference) respectively the `MS-01` and the `MS-A1`. 

```MS-01 (Bonnie)
CPU: Intel i9-12900H
RAM: 64GB DDR5 RAM
Storage: 12TB M.2 SSD in RAID0 
```

.

```MS-A1 (Clyde)
CPU: Ryzen 9 9950X3D
RAM: 96GB DDR5 RAM
Storage: 16TB M.2 SSD in RAID1 
```

`Bonnie` and `Clyde` are some of the best machines that I have on my hand that are used for its intended purpose. I currently have `Bonnie` running Ubuntu Server 24 LTS however I plan on replacing it with Proxmox VE soon. On top of that `Clyde` will also run on Proxmox VE, and I plan on creating a cluster that should give plently of power for many of my applicant uses in build today.

